Welcome, girls and girls, to this lecture.
Well, so at this point, you guys and girls know Kubernetes is the most popular container orchestrator.
But what is it?
What are the components and what do they do?
In this lecture, we're going to understand what is Kubernetes?
All right, let's get started.
Let's start with the application, because at the end of the day, the reason Kubernetes exists is to
run your precious application.
So you package your code configuration dependencies, runtime engine, and you created Docker image
or container image.
And when you run this image, it creates this beautiful container.
So where does this container run?
In Kubernetes.
So Kubernetes is node hosts your containers.
You can think node as a physical or a virtual server.
For example, Amazon is it.
You can work as a node when you run Kubernetes in a W.
S, typically you have one or more nodes running container for one or more applications.
So your container runs on this work or nodes.
However, somebody or something needs to manage this process, such as which container should go to
which node, how many copies of the container should run, does this cluster need more nodes, etc.?
And that is the job of Kubernetes master, also known as control plan.
So Control Plan has a lot in its plate.
So control plan has multiple components.
Who does this functionalities?
Let's take a look.
The first component is ETD.
As container gets loaded into nodes, you need to have a database which serves which container is going
to which nodes, what time they are getting loaded, etc., etc. is a consistent and highly available
key value store that saves all this critical cluster information.
Next is Cube Scheduler.
Cube Scheduler is a control plan component that schedules your container into proper nodes.
It takes multiple factors in the scheduling decisions, such as resource requirements of the container,
a policy constants, data, locality, inter workload, interference, etc. Next one is cube controller
manager.
This component ensures proper state of cluster components.
Pretty sure I confused you guys and gals there.
You guys and gals are probably going, What the heck is this date thing?
All right, let's take a look because this will come up in your conversations or your interviews.
Kubernetes cluster state is nothing but a specific configuration.
Let's say your Kubernetes cluster is supposed to run with three nodes.
So we could say the desired state is three nodes.
But let's say for some reason one node goes down, so the current state becomes two nodes, so the desired
state and current state is no longer equal.
So what's going to happen?
Cube controller manager will jump into action and it is going to observe that the desired state is not
equal to current state and it is going to bring up one more node to make the current state equals to
desired state.
But who specifies state?
Who tells Kubernetes Master that I need this many nodes, I need this many copies of my container running?
Well, you do.
You tell Kubernetes master what state you want using manifest file.
Let's say, for example, in the manifest file you can say, hey, run six copies of my container image.
You're going to post that to the Kubernetes master, and the cube control manager is going to observe
that.
All right.
Desire state six containers, current state zero containers.
So it is going to work with cube scheduler and schedule six container on the nodes and make this state
equal to current state.
All right.
So now we know that you using manifest file can specify a state, but how do you interact with Kubernetes
master?
The cube scheduler, the cube controller manager they are not exposed outside of the cluster.
So you communicate with cube API server.
So this API server is a component of the Kubernetes control plan that exposes the Kubernetes API.
You can think of it as frontend of the Kubernetes control plan.
So any time you need to specify a state or you to change some existing state, you always interact with
this cube API server and then the other components behind the scenes jump into action and make the desire
state and current state equal.
Okay.
So at this point, we know about the four components seed, scheduler, controller, manager and API
server.
So these four components are running in the control plan or Kubernetes master.
Now let's take a look at the node.
So to run your container, the node needs to have container runtime.
Engine container runtime is the software.
That is responsible for running containers.
Kubernetes supports several container runtimes such as container rd creo frac d and of course the most
popular docker.
So until this point we learned about the four control plan components that help running your container
into the nodes, but something needs to run in the node as well besides the containers because the master
needs to communicate with the node.
The master needs to tell the node, Hey, run a container in this node.
And as the master monitors the node, something needs to send back to the master if everything is going
okay or not.
So that's what Cube does.
A cube bullet is an agent that runs on each node in the cluster.
It makes sure that containers are running okay.
If something goes wrong, if reports back to the master and at the same time, if the master wants to
schedule a container in the nodes, it communicates that via the cube led.
All right, so master communicates with the node using cube let.
But what about node to node communication?
Let's say you are running your database in this node and your application server in this node.
How would the database server and the application server communicate with each other that is done using
Q proxy.
So Q proxy is a network proxy that runs on each node in your cluster.
It maintains network rules are nodes.
This network rules allow network communication to your container from inside or outside of your cluster.
So to sum it all up, Kubernetes has two main components master or control plan and worker nodes or
data plan.
The full control plan components are SDA, cube, controller, manager, cube scheduler and Cube API
server, and the node components are cube litt container runtime and cube proxy.
Also, we are going to look at a lot of these components in detail in subsequent lecture.
This is just a 30,000 feet overview of Kubernetes.
So before end this lecture, I just wanted to go over one lingo that I found confusing when I started
my Kubernetes journey.
So a lot of time you will hear K eight instead of Kubernetes.
The reason is there are eight letters between K and S in Kubernetes.
That's why sometimes people lovingly call it kids.
All right, guys and girls, that is the lecture.
I'll see you in the next lecture by.